# Data Lake 

## Introduction

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.


You'll be able to test your database and ETL pipeline by running queries given to you by the analytics team from Sparkify and compare your results with their expected results.
***
## Project Datasets

The two datasets that reside in S3. 

### Song Data: `s3://udacity-dend/song_data`
This datasets is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID.

### Log Data: `s3://udacity-dend/log_data`
This datasets consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings. The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month.
***
## Schema for Song Play Analysis

Using the song and event datasets, you'll need to create a star schema optimized for queries on song play analysis. This includes the following tables. This schema is suitable for OLAP(Online Analytical Processing) operations which will enable users to analyze multidimensional data interactively from multiple perspectives. 

### Fact Table
1. #### songplays - Records in event data associated with song plays i.e. records with `page=NextSong`

        * songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent
### Dimension Tables
2. #### users - users in the app
        * user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level
3. #### songs - songs in music database
        * song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration
4. #### artists - artists in music database
        * artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude
5. #### time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
        * start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday;

***

## Project Template

This project includes two files: 

* `etl.py` - Here we'll read data from S3, processes that data using Spark, and writes them back to S3
* `dl.cfg` - Here contains your AWS credentials.
***

## Build ETL Pipeline

The data that is extracted from S3 will be transformed to to fit the data model in the target destination tables and writes them back to S3 in `parquet` format. 

Execute the ETL pipeline script by running

    $ python etl.py
